>> See some familiar faces from the introduction session.
I'm still Dave Howell, FxPlug engineer and at the
introductory session, we talked about some changes
that have come out in 1.2.1 and the
previous version, 1.2 point of the FxPlug SDK
and we showed some examples of how to use those things
and we went over the very basics of the FxPlug SDK
and in this session we're going to go more in depth
about some topics that people ask about quite a bit
on our mailing list, which is one of the good reasons
to join the mailing list and ask questions there.
Because we, we can go search through them at the end of
the year and see what people had a lot of questions about
and have engineers from the Motion and Final Cut
team come in and explain deeper issues.
So we'll do some of that today.
First we'll have somebody talking about porting plug-ins
to FxPlug from the After Effects plug-in architecture
and then we'll talk about FxPlugs in Final Cut Pro,
particularly how to work with digital video images.
Some of the issues with fielding
and pixel aspects and so on.
We'll talk about the new FxTimingAPI for getting
information from the host application about the start times,
durations, frame rates, field information and so
on, about clips and effects and your time line.
And also demonstrate dynamic parameter hiding and
showing in response to a change in another parameter.
So it's a way of setting parameter
state based on another parameter change.
And we'll show how to use a custom UI based on a nib.
The examples that we've shipped so far have shown how
to, how to create a very simple NSView sub class,
programatically and this one will be one that
was created in Interface Builder within nib.
Then what we'll go through some
advanced topics related to openGL,
in particular b buffers and shaders
and other things as well.
So to kick off this, this crazy fun, we've
got Darin Cardani from the Motion team
to talk about porting plug-ins to FxPlug.
>> Thanks Dave.
( applause )
Hello, I'm Darin Cardani, I'm the third-party
liaison for Motion and just like to talk
to you today about porting your plug-ins.
I think it was Steve Ballmer from Microsoft who
said and I'm paraphrasing, developers, developers,
developers, developers or something like that.
I forget the exact quote.
But that's a philosophy that I'm
really trying to get Apple to embrace.
There are a lot of third party developers
out there who have been wanting to do more
with the pro apps and hopefully you'll be able to now.
One of the things I'm going to talk about is the
difference between C-based API's that you might use
in other applications for writing plug-ins and
the Objective C API's that we have with FxPlug.
I'll talk specifically about the similarities
between After Effects plug-in API and the FxPlug API
and then I'll show you how you can write some
code that will work in both applications.
So with a C-based API, you usually have
a single entry point to your plug-in.
It's your plug-in main function and it will get passed a
selector which will tell you what function you're supposed
to perform and that selector's generally
something like a frame setup or a render frame
and you'll get some pointers to some parameters as well.
If you want your plug-in to talk back to the host app, what
you generally do is call a function that's in a large block
of function pointers and request
some data or request a service.
And we'll talk about how that's a little different.
You may get passed large blocks of data in your plug-in,
because I mean, it's kind of like going through a straw.
You have a single main function and you're
trying to do everything from that main function,
whether it's creating parameters
or rendering a frame or whatever.
So with Objective-c, your plug-ins will
be written to conform to a protocol.
And a protocol is similar to well,
I'll get into protocols in a minute.
But basically, it describes all of the
functions that your plug-in performs
and so the host application will call your render
method rather than calling a dispatch function
and sending it a selector telling you to render.
So it cuts out a little bit of the middle man.
When you need to talk to the host
application, it's a similar thing.
You ask for an object which implements a particular
protocol and that protocol can be for say retrieving
or creating parameters and you simply call the
method you need on that object that's returned.
So you only have a few objects and pieces of data that
are passed between the plug-in and the host application
and you don't end up with large blocks of data like in After
Effects, you have your in data and out data structures.
So what are protocols?
Protocols are abstract descriptions.
They're interfaces that describe what your, in
this case, what your filter is supposed to do.
So they aren't classes in and of themselves, just
descriptions of what, what the class should have
and they're similar to abstract base classes
in C++ or Java and there are three
of them that you'll be interested in in FxPlug.
FxFilter, FxGenerator and FxTransition.
And the host application will also return
objects to you that implement other protocol
such as the FxParameter retrieval API for getting
the values of parameters that you've created.
So here's the FxFilter protocol.
It inherits from the FxBaseEffect protocol and it
asks you things like what is the output width and height
of your filter given an image that's a certain size.
It will tell you to set up any memory
you need for rendering a frame.
It'll ask you to render the actual
frame and then will ask you to clean
up anything you set up in your frame set up method.
So rather than going through this dispatch function
and giving you a get output width selector,
we'll just simply call your plug-ins, get
output width function or method I should say.
So there's a lot of similarities between the After
Effects API and the FxPlug API and here are just a few.
In your After Effects plug-in, the main function will
get sent a selector for setting up your parameters.
Well in FxPlug we just have the addParameters method.
For sequence data, you'll get a sequence set up selector
passed to you in After Effects and in the FxPlug API,
you can just set that stuff up in
your, in it with API Manager method,
because that's what we call every time
we create an instance of your filter.
Likewise there's, there's equivalence for
setting up the framer rendering and setting down
and getting notified when a user changes a parameter.
If you want some other parameter
to also change at the same time.
For example, you might have a check box
that enables or disables some sliders.
Okay, so let's look specifically at adding parameters.
Something that you're going to do in every plug-in
is set up the parameters that the user can use
to change the output of their, of your filter.
So in After Effects, you'd call the PF_ADD_FLOAT_SLIDER
macro and then the PF_ADD_POINT, say
and then the PF_ADD_COLOR macro
and that would tell the host app
that you need a slider, a point control and a color control.
Likewise in FxPlug, we have the Fx parameter retrieval
or parameter creation API and it
implements similar functionality.
ADDFloatSlider, addPoint, addColor.
So what it would be nice to do is to only
have to write your parameter set up code once.
Because it's going to have the
same controls in both applications.
So I'm going to show you how to do that.
I'm going to create a little FxHelper class
or not really class, it's an interface.
I'm going to write it in straight C, because you
can call straight C from C, from C++,
from Objective-c and from Objective-C++.
So it should work with any other host app
that you're likely to be writing for as well,
because most of them have c interfaces or C++
interfaces and it'll work with Objective-c as well.
So we'll call the Fx addFloatDlider, FXHAddFloatSlider,
FXHAddPoint and FXHAddColor
and then you've only written it once
and it works in both applications.
So we start by creating an interface for the different
functions that we're going to need in both plug-ins.
In this case, we're going to need something that creates a
slider and then something that gets the value of that slider
and we pass it as the first parameter, you'll notice
that's a pointer to avoid and it's called add specific.
This is going to be different in each application.
In the case of After Effects, this is
going to be the pointer to your pf in data.
In the case of motion, it's going to be a pointer to an object
which implements the parameter getting
or setting API or creation API.
So let's go back for one second here.
You've have this header and you're going to
include this header in both of your plug-ins.
Your After Effects plug-in and your FxPlug.
In After Effects, you're going to write the
implementation of these functions for After Effects,
I called this AEFxHelpers.c and
it does exactly what you'd expect.
It casts the add specific pointer to a PF_InData pointer.
It then creates a parameter def structure, clears
it and calls the PF_ADD_FLOAT_SLIDER macro,
just like you would have done inline in
your After Effects plug-in in the past.
Likewise, we make a file called FxPlugFxHelpers.mm
and this is
where you'll implement the same
functionality for your FxPlug.
So we've got FXHCreateFloatSlider.
In this case, the app specific parameter is a pointer to
an object that implements the FxParameterCreationAPI
and we simply cast it and then call it's addFloatSlider
method and you'll notice we pass mostly the same parameters.
You have a parameter id, a default value, a
minimum and maximum, slider minimum and maximum.
If we look back at the After Effects
version, it has the same thing.
Minimum, maximum, slider min and max and things like that.
So in this case I'm going to show a simple set up function for
a gamma correction plug-in and basically what I've done is,
I've taken the standard gamma filter
that ships with the After Effects SDK
and modified it to work in both applications.
So in your AE plug-in source, you would have as
the param set up method or function I should say,
it would simply call SetupGammaParameters and pass it the
in data pointer and then do it's accounting that it needs
to do for After Effects setting the number of parameters.
Likewise, in your FxPlug, you'll simply get the
api manager for the FxParameterCreation API object
and you'll pass that to SetupGammaParameters.
Now you'll notice, we're calling SetupGammaParameters
from our After Effects plug-in and passing it in data
and we're calling it again in our FxPlug,
but passing it the parameter API object.
That's because we've written different
actual functionality for those
in the different applications,
but the interface is the same.
So here's, here's our SetupGammaParameters.
We're actually going to write the set up parameters
once and in this case it just creates a float slider
and then returns the error, if there was any.
I've never had an error be returned from creating
a parameter in eight years or writing plug-ins
but (laughs) I suppose it could happen eventually.
And this will also be included in both your
After Effects plug-in and your FxPlug.
And of course, the FXH function is different
in each app, so it calls the correct one.
So that's, that's a simple way that
you can write functionality once.
You can do the same thing with your render method to
actually do the processing of the pixels and I've included
on the attendee website, some sample code that
allows you to take the After Effects example
and modify it so that it'll run in both applications.
So basically FxPlug implement one of the
protocols, either filter, generator or transition.
The methods that you would normally call in a C-based API
or rather in a C-based API you get passed
selectors and have to dispatch them.
Whereas Objective-c you'll just write the
methods and the host app will call them.
And you can write most of your code once and have it
work in both applications, saving you a lot of time.
With that, I'm going to turn it over to Paul Schneider
and he's going to talk a little bit about Final Cut Pro
and some specifics of things that
you like to do with FxPlugs.
Thanks.
( applause )
>> Hi, I'm Paul Schneider.
I'm an engineer at apple working on Final Cut.
Today I'm going to talk about writing
FxPlugs in Final Cut.
Like Dave said, I'm going to try to answer
some of the most popular questions
that people have asked us over the past year.
I'm going to start off with describing
some common problems that people run
into when they initially start trying
to run their plug-ins in Final Cut.
Then I'm going to move on to doing more interesting things
that you can do for the first time in Final Cut 6
and I'm going to use an example plug-in for
most of my talk and it's going to be part
of the FxPlug 1.2.1
SDK, which we'll be shipping any day now.
So the first thing I'm going to talk
about is images in Final Cut.
One of the things that you have to watch out for when
you're writing a plug-in is that when you're writing a plug
in on image in Final Cut, you're really processing
the pixels as they come out of the camera or codec
and as they're going to an external device.
So if you're used to working with
like with a still image like an rgb,
jpeg or even another motion graphics application, you
might be surprised by how images look in Final Cut.
So with digital video images, there is a
couple of things you have to watch out for.
The first one is that your pixels aren't actually square.
Your pixels are rectangular, there's
a non 1.0 aspect ratio.
So you need to generally take that into account
if you're doing any kind of geometric effect.
The second thing that you need to watch
out for is that the images are interlaced.
You're going to be processing individual
fields rather than a full progressive frame
and you need to be aware of that as well.
The third thing is not specific to video,
but it is specific to Final Cut and Motion.
We will at times render on a low resolution proxy.
Which means we'll give you a smaller image than, than
would actually, than you think you're working on.
An example would be like for playback.
We might switch down to fifty percent to save time, to
play back faster and then we'll scale the result back
up to full size just to give the user a
lower quality but higher performance preview.
So your effect needs to be aware of when we do that and
render accordingly so it doesn't look wrong during playback.
So the first thing you need to be
aware of is like I said, aspect ratio.
Your pixels won't be square when they appear on the
computer monitor or on an external NTSC or HD device.
So when you're rendering a plug-in, you need to
know the aspect ration of your image and you do
that by asking the FxImage what's your
aspect ratio using the pixel aspect selector.
The second thing are the single field images.
This is sort of a difference between Final Cut
and other some other applications.
Not all other applications.
You can see here, you know two fields are
interlaced together to create the full frame
and we will pass you one field at a time because the fields
are actually occurring at slightly different points in time.
The second field is half a frame past the frame temporarily.
The other thing to be aware of here is that these
fields are half the height of the full assembled frame.
Some other packages will stretch the fields
to full height to make it easier to process.
Final cut does not do that for a couple of reasons.
One is performance.
This way you only have to work on half
the data and the second one is actually,
if you're writing an effect that's aware of video
and wants to do interesting things with the field,
it's better to have the actual fields available
and not some scaled version of the fields.
So the first thing you need to do is check to see
if you're doing an interlaced render and you can do
that by asking the FxImage if it represents a field
and that will return and instance of the FxField enum
which will either be a lower field, the upper field or
field none, which means this is a progressive frame.
This image does not represent a field.
The second thing you need to check is whether
the fields have been stretched to full height
or if they're acting their native half height.
And you do that using the FxHost capabilities object.
This is an object that we added
in the FxPlug 1.1
that lets you check various capabilities of the host.
You know, which version of which app you're
running in, which work arounds you might need,
which bugs have been fixed hopefully and one of the
things that you can check for is this upscales field call.
So you can ask the host whether it
stretches a single field image to full height
or whether it keeps it at it's native size.
So one way that you can account for, oh I'm sorry.
The third thing you have to watch out
for are the low resolution proxies.
If we were rendering you on a small image that will actually
be scaled up for display or for performance reasons.
Final Cut will do this during playback, which means it's
something you have to, especially watch out for because,
it's not a user selectable thing like it is in Motion.
When the user hits play in Final Cut, we
will probably drop you down to half quality.
So you check for this using the render info that we
passed to you when we asked you to render a frame.
The render info struct contains information
about the current render that we've asked you for
and part of that is what scale
the rendering is happening at.
So be prepared for a scale X and scale Y of
say 0.5 for half resolution render.
Now all three of these things, you can interpret this
information any way that makes sense for your plug-in,
but all three of these things can be thought of
as just a scale distortion on your rendering.
So here's a little snippet of code that
sort of handles all three at the same time.
This is also included in the sample plug-in in
the SDK so, don't worry about writing it down.
You see here, I want to know how I'm going to scale my render
so it'll look correct when Final Cut displays it and I want
to scale horizontally by the aspect ratio, I want to check
to see if I'm rendering a half height field and if so,
I want to scale vertically and then I also want to take
into account any renderInfo.scale
for the low resolution proxy rendering.
So now I'm just going to run a demo.
What I just talked about might be sort of hard
to visualize, but it's actually pretty easy
to see when you watch it happen in practice.
So here's this example plug-in called scrolling rich text
and this will be part of the FxPlug 1.2 SDK.
And what this is, it's a generator
and it just simply draws some text
and scrolls it up and down as you move through time.
And you can see down and the bottom
here, I've got three controls to handle,
aspect ratio, half height fields and render scale.
In your shipping plug-in, you just
want to handle these all the time,
but for demonstration purposes I'm actually letting you
see what happens when you don't handle it correctly.
So the first thing is aspect ratio.
You can see here, if I ignore the aspect ratio
and I just render as if the pixels are square,
my text is a little distorted horizontally
and a lot of people miss this.
Because for the format that a lot of people
use, just DV, the pixels are almost square.
You can see that that's really not that different
from that and if you just saw one in isolation,
you might not know which was right and which was wrong.
What I recommend doing is, testing your
plug-in in an anamorphic sequence.
That's got a more extreme aspect ratio and you can easily
see you know, whether you're handling it correctly or not.
So here you see the text is pretty obviously
distorted because I'm ignoring the aspect ratio
and then if I take the aspect ratio into account,
scale my text to render it appropriately,
it looks correct even with an extreme aspect ratio.
The second thing you want to take into
account are these half height fields.
This one's pretty obvious.
If I ignore it, my text is twice as high as it should be
and the reason for that is I've drawn it at the full height
into each field and then the fields were interlaced
together creating an image that's twice as high
and the text is twice as high as it should be.
So again, I just want to scale my rendering appropriately
so that when Final Cut interlaces the fields together
to create the final output, the text looks correct.
And the last one is the one that's easy to miss.
Which is the render scale.
You can see here, if I'm just parked on
a frame, there's actually no difference.
But if I start playback and I'm not listening to the
render scale, the text looks twice as big during playback
and the reason is is that Final Cut is actually dropped
down to half resolution in order to play back faster
and so I'm drawing into a smaller
image but I'm using the same text size
and then Final Cut scales that image up for display.
So what I want to do whoa, what I want to
do is pay attention to that render scale
and then during playback, it looks correct.
So this is the kind of thing where it's easy to see in
practice, it's hard to imagine when we try to explain it
in email or documentation but it's pretty obvious what's
going wrong when you actually start writing code.
Now I just want to talk about the other
interesting things that this plug-in
in does besides render text correctly in Final Cut.
You can see that it just draws a line of
text that scrolls as I move through time.
One nice thing about this plug-in is that the animation
always takes up the full duration of the item in a timeline.
So if I shrink this item down, make it shorter,
the animation knows that and catches up.
So on the last frame of the generator, the
text is completely off the top of the frame.
On the first frame of the generator, the text is completely
off the bottom of the frame and it just interpolates
in the intermediate frames to draw the right thing and
this will work even if I have more than one line of text.
So if I just copy and paste this a few times, you can
see that it wraps correctly and it scrolls correctly
and I'm doing my text rendering using
actually code built into the operating system.
I'm using a class called NSAttributedString
which is a really nice class that it will take,
supports a string with various
formats in various ranges of the text.
So NSAttributedString knows how to draw
itself, it knows how to measure itself,
it knows how to tell you what area
it will take up when you render it.
So I didn't have to write any code for all that at all.
And so I have some you know, fairly simple controls here.
I can enter a line of text, this is using a basic
string parameter which is built into FxPlug.
I can make the text bigger or smaller
by changing the attributes.
I can change the color.
There's a lot more that I can do with the text and it might
be sort of a pain to provide a different parameter setting
for each type and there's things like you know, I only get
a single line of text entry here, I would like to be able
to have a little more control over that
and that's where the custom UI comes in.
So what I can do is, I can switch from my simple
text entry controls to using an external file on disk
and when I do this, you'll see that the simple text that it
controls disappear and they're replaced with this custom UI
which I defined myself and what this will do,
this lets me do, I can just pick any rtf file,
I happen to have one on disk and then
it'll use that for the text rendering.
So I've got a huge range, I've got a huge text file here,
not huge, but I've got a fairly lengthy text file here,
simply more than I could have typed in myself in Final Cut.
It's got different font characteristics, at different
ranges of text, different colors, different spacing.
This paragraph is you know, center
justified and if I want to edit this,
I can use a great text editing facility
that comes with the operating system.
I'll just open it and TextEdit.
So I can you know, take this, make the
text a lot bigger, type in some more
and then just use that as my text editing application.
So that's pretty nice.
It didn't take me very long to write this plug-in and I get
very rich text editing capabilities that are already there.
So let's switch back to the slides
and I'll talk about how I did that.
So the first thing that you might have noticed is that the
generator actually knew how long it was in the timeline.
So that it was able to animate correctly and I
used that, I did that using the new FxTiming API,
which we introduced in FxPlug 1.2.
I'm just going to talk briefly about the timing API,
we talked about it a bit in this morning's session
and I'm not going to talk about all the things it does.
I'm just going to give you a taste.
So the timing API gives you information
about your effect in the timeline.
You might want to know the frame rate of the timeline
you're in, you might want to know where your effect starts
in the timeline and how long your effect is in the
timeline and you can find that out with the timing API.
It'll also tell you about the effects input.
So you can get information about different
images that Final Cut is feeding you.
You might want to know the start time of the clip
you've been applied to, if you're a filter,
the duration of that clip, the field order of the clip.
If you've got a mixed format situation where your filter
has been applied to a clip that's got a different frame rate
or field order than the timeline,
you might want to know that information
so that you can intelligently do something appropriate
if you're doing a retiming effect or something like that.
And we also give you facilities to do that.
If you've got a different frame rate in front
of your input than you do on the timeline,
we'll let you convert between those different times.
So this is the concrete example, a very
simple one, here's how I wrote my generator.
I just used the durationForEffect call, to find out how
long the generator was in the timeline and then I looked
at the current frame, the frame I'm being asked
to render right now, divide that by the duration
and that's how far through the generator I am right now.
So I know how far through my animation I should be.
The one little gotcha here, I had to subtract one off
the duration because, the renderInfo.frame
that we passed through the current frame, is zero based.
The other thing you might have noticed that
happened was when I switched that pop up menu,
I hid some of my parameters and showed some other
parameters and this is something that's new in Final Cut 6.
It's pretty straightforward.
The first thing you want to do is create some of
your parameters hidden by default and you do
that with the parameterFlag_HIDDEN flag.
So when you create parameters, you pass them some flags.
One of the flags is I want this parameter to be hidden
on creation and then the next thing you want to do is hide
and show parameters in response to another parameter
changing and whenever one of your parameter values changes
in Final Cut, we'll send you a parameter change message.
So here you can see, I want to know when the menu changes
so I know if I should hide or show a different parameter.
So I checked to see if a different parameter that
changed was my hide show menu parameter, if it was,
I get the new value of the hide show pop up and if the
pop up says I should hide my parameter now, I'll set the,
I'll set the hidden flag on the parameter, the hide
otherwise I will clear the hidden flag on the parameter
to hide, which means show this parameter if it's hidden.
And then the final thing was my custom UI.
Actually created that in Interface Builder with a nib.
Now from the beginning of FxPlug, we've let you
create custom user interfaces just be returning an NSView
and we've always said oh, you know, it's an NSView
so you can create it in Interface Builder.
You can be as fancy as you want.
But we've never actually shown you how to do that
before so now we have a sample that shows that off.
So the first thing I do is in my
nib, I define my plug-in class.
In this case, my plug-in is implemented
by class called ScrollingRichText.
So I tell Interface Builder that
a class with that name exists.
The next thing I do is define some properties for the plug-in
class, so I will create an outlet which is just a pointer
to the custom UI and I'll create two actions.
One called chooseTextFile and one called editTextFile.
If you remember the demo, I had two buttons.
One to let me choose a file on disk and
one that opens that file up in TextEdit.
So these correspond to those two buttons.
And then the next thing I will
do is I'll actually make my UI.
So I'll create a view in the Interface Builder,
I'll drag in the controls I want from the pallet,
so there's my choose button, my
edit button and a little static text
that just displays the name of the file that I've chosen.
Now this stuff is a little bit tricky,
but what I'll do is I'll make the owner
of the nib in instance of my plug-in class.
So in this case, my plug-in class is
called ScrollingRichText, so I'll say,
this nib is owned by the ScrollingRichText class.
Once I've done that, I can wire up the connections.
So, I've got in instance of the ScrollingRichText
class in my nib, so I'll wire up it's outlet,
it's custom view outlet to the view
that I created and then I'll wire
up the buttons inside the view to the classes actions.
So that I'll drag that choose text button to so
that it fires off the choose text file
action and similarly for the edit button.
So that's all I do in the nib.
Now it's time to write some code.
Here's what my plug-in class looks like.
It's a generator and it's got the
outlet and the action defined.
These are the ones that created an Interface Builder.
Now my next step is I will create the custom parameter.
So in my add parameters function, I'm going to add a
custom parameter, I'm going to give it a default value
which in this case is just an empty NSString.
You recall that custom parameters in FxPlug can
be an instance of any Objective-c class that conforms
to the NSCoding protocol and that's necessary
for reading and writing your data from a project.
So in most of our sample code, we will define our own
classes and we'll implement the reading and writing routines
but it turns out that appKit already provides
you with a whole lot of classes that do this for you.
So if my needs can be met by an NSString or an
NSData or an NSArray,
I can just use that class as my custom data type.
I don't need to write my own class.
And then the final thing is I would set the custom UI
flag on my parameter, to let the host know that the
plug-in itself will be creating the
user interface for this parameter.
And when you set that flag as far as the host calls
you back when it's time to create the user interface.
So in this case, I'm being asked to
create a view for my custom parameter.
And this is the really cool part because, all I have
to do is load my nib passing myself as the owner.
You recall that the owner of the nib is an instance of the
ScrollingRchText class, so I pass in myself as the owner
and loading the nib wires up my outlets and my actions.
So after I've loaded the nib, my custom view pointer
points to the NSView that I created in Interface Builder.
So I'm done.
I just return that view and it's also
the buttons inside the view are wired
up to my choose text selectors and my edit text selectors.
And that's it.
So I'll just show that one last time in
case you forgot how the plug-in works.
Here's my pop up, I respond to changes in the
pop up by hiding or showing certain parameters,
in the more complicated example, I've got my user
interface that I created in Interface Builder,
this choose button is wired up, this edit button is wired up
and that was literally all the code I had to write to do it.
So that's it for me.
I'm going to hand it over to Pete Warden now.
( applause )
>> Good job.
So hi, I'm Pete Warden from the motion team and
one of the biggest problems for plug-in developers,
one of the biggest questions or set of questions
that comes up on the list is dealing with openGL,
dealing with some of the advanced
operations that you typically want to do
when you're implementing image processing filters on the
GPU and we figured for these advanced real world filters,
often times it's not the individual building blocks
of the problem, but it's time to put it all together
and the best documentation is very often having a
working piece of sample code that you can refer to
and use to help you figure out problems on your own
and to illustrate some of the, some of the issues.
So we actually took one of Motion's internal filters, one
of the shipping filters and tied it up, made it stand alone
and we're going to be shipping that as
sample code with the 1.2 SDK.
So this means this is code that's been
pretty heavily through our QA mill,
it's been optimized as much as we're able.
So it should be quite useful to refer to and it
shows two issues in particular that come up time
and time again that are really tricky to deal with.
Rendering to a texture.
If you've got a complex filter, you're very
likely to have a graph internally to the filter
of image processing operations where you need
to pass data from one to another and dealing
with floating point rendering which is a fairly obscure
area of openGL and isn't documented all that well.
So this is all going to be in the SDK
which we're going to be shipping shortly.
Now why is the openGL side of
writing an FxPlug so hard?
It's fundamentally because openGL
was written to be a 3D rendering API.
It was written to be geometry processing.
We've had a lot of success using it for image processing,
but some of the very basic features that are building blocks
of writing image processing filters, do require some API's
and some parts of openGL that are more arcane,
more obscure, less world documented
and harder to get information on.
Rendering to an intermediate image is one of the most
common things for more complex filters to have to do
where you have operations, where you need
to pass image data from one to another,
where you're building up from individual pieces,
your rendering graph and your drawing multiple passes
and on the GPU, it's quite different from the CPU.
On the CPU all you have are images.
You can usually access the data directly, you can
read from that data or you can write to that data.
It's all very orthogonal and it's all very flat.
Whereas on the GPU, the things that you draw into are very
different beasts than the things that you read data from.
That's fundamentally part of the design of the GPU,
part of the way that they get their massive speed
up is they've got a very strict pipeline
about what's input and what's output.
There's several different ways of
rendering into a texture using the GPU.
I'm going to be focusing on PBuffers.
One important thing and probably one of the most crucial
things about PBuffers is that they stay in VRAM.
If you want to get performance out of the GPU,
you really, really, really need to make sure
that you're operations are staying
on the GPU as much as possible.
If you're coming from a CPU-based background, it's
very tempting when you're running into issues,
to try and do a read back from the card and do
some CPU-based processing and then write it back
up to the card and that's really death for performance.
It's very, very bad news because the bus between the
graphics card and the CPU isn't all that fast compared
to how fast the graphics card can process
and it means that the CPU has to wait
until the GPU has finished whatever operations it's doing
so you no longer get the parallelism that you'd really like.
So unlike some of the older techniques of rendering
to a texture, this stays entirely in VRAM.
Frame buffer objects were introduced fairly recently, we're
modified fairly recently but, they also have this advantage
and they are nicer in some other ways as well..
They actually have nicer API and we're using
them in some parts of the Motion engine but,
since almost all of our filters are still using PBuffers,
we wanted to illustrate the way that we're most familiar
with and that's still working very well for us.
So within the code sample itself, this is the
small set of utility functions we actually give you
for doing common operations with PBuffers.
The first two hopefully are fairly self
explanatory, you use them to create
and destroy PBuffers to allocate and deallocate PBuffers.
I am going to talk about some of the hidden gotchas
next about dealing with allocation and deallocation
because it isn't as trivial as it might appear.
When you want to start drawing into a PBuffer, when
you start want to start sending drawing operations
onto a surface, into a texture, you call PBuffer_Begin
and then subsequently all of your GL calls that you make
after that will go into the surface
that you set up as a PBuffer.
It sets the current context, the current geo context
to point to the PBuffer surface that you set up.
And when you've completed all of your drawing and
you have finished up, you can call PBuffer_End
and that will finalize all of your drawing operations
and will send any subsequent GL calls back to the surface
that you were drawing into before you
started drawing into the PBuffer.
And then finally, when you actually want to use the contents
of that PBuffer, when you want to use what you've drawn
into that PBuffer as a texture, you call PBuffer_Use and
that's actually very similar to using a normal texture.
So wherever you'd use Fx texture use or do a GL bind
texture, you can just call this PBuffer_Use command
and it will make the text unit you got as the active
texture use the contents of that PBuffer that you've drawn
into as a texture so you can use it in fragment programs
or whatever other drawing operations you're using.
The allocation issues I talked about are
all based around that fact that allocation
and deallocation of PBuffers is very, very expensive.
It's not like on the CPU side where allocating an image
and deallocating and image is normally around the same cost
as a malloc, a fairly lightweight operation.
It's a kernel level object.
It involves a lot of housekeeping on the OS side
and it's generally a very expensive operation.
So in practice, this means that if you're coming from a
CPU background, you're used to writing render function
where you would actually allocate any intermediate
images you needed at the start of the render function,
use them as you do the processing and then at
the end of the render function just delete them.
That is a very bad pattern to use on
the GPU when you're using PBuffers.
Because, that means you'll be doing
an allocation and a deallocation
over PBuffer every single frame that you render.
Instead, what we recommend and
what the sample code demonstrates,
is trying to keep PBuffers around as long as you can.
Trying to create PBuffers at the start of your render
function, use them as before but then at the end
of the render function, have them stored in
member variables so next time you're called,
you're actually able to check the size and the bit
depth of those PBuffers that you previously created
and if they're big enough to reuse,
you've completely skipped the allocation
and deallocation that you were doing before.
And this to give you an idea of the
magnitude of the difference this can make,
we've had plug-ins where we've gone from
four or five frames a second up to thirty
or forty frames a second, just by making this change.
So it's a bit of extra housekeeping, it has a bit more
complexity, you do need to make sure that you destroy them
in your dealloc call so that you don't end up leaking,
but it can make a massive difference to performance.
So it's highly recommended that you actually do
this to get the best performance out of the GPU.
Paul talked about using proxy resolution within
Final Cut and the same thing happens within Motion.
Very often when you're writing simple plug-ins, all
that means is that you have to scale the parameters
that you're using internally by the resolution.
Once you're rendering into intermediate images,
one trap that we often fall into ourselves
and that we've seen third party developers fall into,
is still doing your processing at full resolution,
even though the input and output are actually a
low resolution and the reason this is a problem is,
the user has switched or the app has automatically
switched for the user to a lower resolution
so they can sacrifice quality for performance.
They expect to see complex projects speed up when
you're actually using proxy resolution scales
and if your filter isn't respecting that and it's
still processing the same number of pixels internally,
it's going to be a pretty bad experience for
the user and they're going to have a bad day.
So just another thing to watch out for.
Just make sure when you switch to a low
resolution that your filter seems to speed up.
If it doesn't, have a look at the intermediate images
and see if maybe there's something going wrong with that.
So the final piece of GL arcana that
I'm going to talk about is floating point.
Now this is obviously a crucial thing if you're going to be
doing high quality rendering and we actually require filters
to support on the GPU 16-bit and 32-bit float.
But this is something that was introduced
pretty recently on consumer graphics cards.
It's only been the past two or three years that cards have
even begun supporting this at all and for technical reasons,
there's a couple of capabilities that we take for granted on
the 8-bit side, but very many graphics cards don't support.
Many of the more modern ones actually
support these two at 16-bit float
but almost no cards support them at 32-bit float.
And those two capabilities are bilinear filtering where
you're doing a fetch from a non-integral texture coordinate
and you're expecting to get the weighted
average of the four neighboring pixels
and blend mode compositing hardware blending on openGL
where you're actually expecting that the text
that you're drawing will be combined
with the background that's already there
and then drawn into the background of the Frame-buffer.
So both of those don't work on many cards,
just the hardware doesn't support them.
Unfortunately, there isn't any good API for discovering
if the card that you're running on at the moment
and the bit fetch that you're running
on at the moment supports these.
These are always supported 8-bit, but once you enter
float, there isn't a good technique for using this.
Initially we did try doing our own card id checks which
have all the usually problems of new cards coming out,
id strings changing and just all the
reasons why that's usually a bad idea.
So what we ended up doing in Motion is actually
running a test at start up for different bit depths.
We will run operations that rely on bilinear filtering
and operations that rely on blend mode compositing
and that should produce known values when they're drawn
into a, into a buffer and then we will read back the pixels
that were actually drawn to tell
if the operation worked or not.
Now this is obviously pretty scary stuff, pretty complex to
write yourself so we very strongly recommend that you try
and avoid relying on these two features
of openGL within your GPU FxPlugs.
If you can, design your algorithms
so that you don't rely on these.
It will make life a lot simpler,
it will make life a lot easier.
If like us, you've already written a
lot of your algorithms to rely on these,
there are some alternatives that you can use.
There are some work arounds if you're willing to put in
a bit of extra work and deal with some performance loss.
The sample that we're going to be shipping, the
directional blur sample actually demonstrates this
for bilinear filtering.
We have a fragment program that does
four nearest neighbor texture fetches
and then does the weighted bilinear filtering internally.
It looks at the factional part and adds them together and
it's actually was surprisingly tricky at least for us to get
that right, because of the placing of the center
pixels and a lot of the flawing and stuff.
So hopefully if you're doing any bilinear
filtering that's going to be useful for you guys.
It does mean four times as many texture accesses,
so it has a serious impact on performance.
So that's a good incentive to try and avoid it if you can.
Blending you can also emulate.
It wasn't needed for this particular filter
so it's not included in the sample code but,
the way you do that is you actually take one PBuffer that
you're using as a background and the texture that you want
to blend over that background, put them both as inputs
into a fragment program and because you cannot read
from the same PBuffer that you're drawing into,
you actually have to draw into a second PBuffer
after you combine the two original inputs in
the fragment program and then when you want
to composite something further, you then ping pong
back from the one you've just drawn into using.
That is the background into the second PBuffer
and just continue doing operations like that.
So again, you can probably see, this is a pretty heavyweight
operation compared to the normal hardware openGL blending,
especially if you're trying to
blend a lot of small triangles.
It rapidly gets very, very costly.
So again, if you possibly can, try and avoid
using either blending or bilinear filtering.
It will take you a lot of time to get right
and it really won't give very good performance.
And that's it.
I'm hoping you'll get a chance to look through the
directional blur sample code when it's out there
with the SDK and you'll be able to send plenty of questions
onto us and I don't know if Dave wants to wrap up.
Thanks.
( applause )
>> (Inaudible) Thanks Pete.
We saw a few things today.
We saw a brief overview of the FxPlug features that have
been added and we talked about methods for sharing code
when you're trying to support more
than one plug-in architecture.
That's also useful for porting, the concepts in there
are good as a reference when you're porting to FxPlug.
And we saw examples from the directional blur example
and the rich scrolling, ScrollingRichText example
and those are both in the plug-in examples
in the new FxPlug SDK which will be uploaded
to developer connections soon so get to know them.
There's a lot in them.
It's worth really kind of stepping through and looking at
all the code in there as you're getting started with FxPlug
or if you're trying to refresh
your knowledge or move on to some
to attack some difficult problem
that might be covered in them.
For more information, please do
join the pro-apps-dev mail list.
This is an open forum that other plug-in developers can
share their wisdom with you on and on the Apple engineers
from the Motion and Final Cut team do
frequent this list and share information too.
If you have a confidential topic to discuss,
you can write to an internal group at Apple,
the proappsdk@group.apple.com.
And watch for the 1.2.1 FxPlug SDK.
The code for sharing on After Effects, sharing your
code with After Effects is up on the attendees site
on the, on WWDC site, so please look for that.